Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Today’s movie is a timeless love story with
love, letters and a mailbox.
This is The Lake House.
The movie starts off with a woman named Kate Forrester
leaving a lake house, putting her things in
her car all except a letter that she leaves
in the mailbox.
As she drives away in autumn, a man named
Alex Wyler checks out the lake house in winter.
That night, he moves in, taking the letter from
the mailbox as he does so.
It’s from Kate who welcomes the new tenant
to the house and politely asks that the new
tenant forward any mail that might have accidentally
been sent to the lake house,
since she’s moved to Chicago.
And she ends it with a PS, apologizing for
the pawprints on the dock
and the box in the attic to which Alex is left wondering
"What pawprints? What box is she talking about?"
The next day, Alex is painting the railings.
But as he’s painting, a dog runs through
his paint tray, running into his house,
making paw prints on the dock.
In Chicago, Kate is eating with her mom at
Daley Plaza.
It’s a hot and noisy Valentines Day and
as they are eating lunch, a bus runs into
a man and Kate rushes to save him.
But we find out that she failed to save him,
and after a talk with her boss
her boss suggests that she take some days off
so she goes to the Lake House with her dog Jack.
She checks the mailbox for mail and takes
out a letter.
It’s from Alex, who tells her that she’s
mistaken.
According to Alex, the house has been abandoned
for years and he thinks that maybe she was
writing the letter for someone else.
He ends the letter, asking her how she knew about
the pawprints.
She’s a little upset with him in her next
letter.
No.
She meant to write to whoever was moving into
the lake house.
She used to live there and since she has moved.
And she’d like it very much if he sent her
any mail at her new address in Chicago.
Oh and he’s wrong about the whole house
was empty for several years thing.
It’s 2006 and someone was living there before
her.
And Alex is just confused by the letter, this time
What does she mean saying its 2006?
Alex goes to Chicago to reunite with his brother,
Henry.
Who is an architect working for their workaholic
father, Simon.
The two brothers catch up and Alex tells Henry
all about the lake house and his new dog
which is the same dog that made the paw prints.
After the reunion, Alex goes to Kate’s address,
to deliver a letter, and we find out, that
the building is still under construction.
He goes back to the lake house and leaves
his letter in the mailbox: telling her that
her home is still under construction and he
points out that she got the year wrong.
It’s not 2006.
It’s 2004.
But Alex is a man talking to a woman so of
course he’s wrong!
She scrounges around her apartment until she
finds a photo dated April 4th, 2004 (04/03/2004).
Supposedly Jack the Dog didn’t like the
late snow that spring.
So Kate decides to play along with Alex, warning
him that “If you really are in 2004, you’re
gonna get some late spring snow.” and she
gives him a scarf to keep him warm.
Alex thinks she’s just being ‘cute’
and chuckles at her prediction and doesn’t
believe a word.
Until he turns around and sees the first fall
of snow and he’s awestruck by the weather
and that last letter from Kate.
The next morning is pretty-chilly but Alex
still goes out and leaves a letter in the
mailbox.
When Kate pulls out his letter from the mailbox,
it reads “Can this be happening?”.
And as he’s walking back inside, Alex is
surprised to see the mailbox’s flag go up.
There in the mailbox, that had Alex’s letter
minutes ago, is an envelope.
From Kate, reading “Why not?”.
Neither of them see anyone deliver a letter,
but their mailboxes somehow get letters.
Without anyone delivering them.
So just to be clear: Alex is in
the year 2004 and Kate is in the year 2006.
It seems like the mailbox is a portal between
2 separate dimensions, 2 timelines:
where it’s either 2 years in the future
or 2 years in the past.
and using this, they are able to send each other letters
as well as as a scarf.
Both to and from the future or the past, so!
This movie uses 2 different timelines where
people are able to talk to each other.
Let’s see if this theory holds true, and
nail down the rules this movie follows.
Back to the movie.
So, Kate and Alex decide to properly introduce
themselves to each other.
She’s a doctor and he’s an architect and
through the letters they have some playful
interactions and learn more about each other.
Like in one letter, they talk about the paw
prints, and by coincidence they realize that
they both have the same dog.
In fact, Kate tells Alex the dog’s name
is Jack and for some reason the dog seems
to respond to the name after Alex calls her.
There’s this one time when Alex gives
Kate a map of Chicago with a route to follow.
She ends up next to a building where Alex
had spray-painted message to her.
There’s also this one letter to Alex, where
Kate mentions that she misses seeing the trees,
that grow around the lake house.
So, Alex plants a sapling at the place where
Kate lives in the future.
And we see, in the future, Kate go back home
one day while it is raining and then suddenly,
the tree is there.
Now fully grown.
Did you see that?
The moment Alex plants the tree, it pops up in the future.
Kate sees this and she’s confused by it
because she remembers that the tree not being there
What does this mean?
Well, this means that the first theory was wrong.
It seems like this movie has one timeline where the past affects the future.
So if you plant a tree in the past, it grows up, becoming fully-grown in the future
which makes sense
But then why does Kate
remember the tree not being there?
Stay tuned, because we are gonna find out
what’s happening here.
In another letter from Kate, she mentions
that she lost a book: a copy of Persuasion
by Jane Austen at the train station in the
past.
She asks him if he can get it for her and
so, Alex goes there, and he sees Kate there,
and she’s with her then boyfriend. Morgan
She says goodbye, never noticing Alex, and
leaves her book and Alex tries to return it:
Running after her.
He doesn’t make it in time.
But through the windows of the train, they
make eye contact and this is the first time
that they have ever seen each other.
After the train station thing, he asks her
out on a date.
Kate asks him to call her on July 10, 2006.
The day she’s writing the letter.
When coincidentally the phone rings!
And it’s Morgan, Kate’s Ex-boyfriend.
They go out that night and Morgan and Kate
start arguing.
Why?
Because of some random guy that Kate kissed
years ago at some party.
Back in the past, Jack the Dog runs away,
so Alex and Mona
(a women who is obsessed with Alex)
chase after the dog.
Alex and Mona find Jack at a house, where
they meet Morgan who at this given moment
is Katie's boyfriend in 2004.
They have a brief chat and Alex mentions to
Morgan that he’s been living at a lake house.
To which Morgan is like
"That's very interesting, my girlfriend is really interested in a place near a lake, as well y'know?"
"Oh and speaking of my girlfriend, we're having a party with her tonight. Why don't you guys come over?"
"Whose your girlfriend?"
"Kate."
So of course, Alex goes with single goal in mind: to find Kate
In 2006 at the bar, Kate is drinking on her
birthday and here she has a heart to heart
with her boss.
Kate tells her about Alex and how the
one guy she truly wants to be with
is the one she never can be with.
Back in the past, Morgan introduces Kate to
Mona and Alex and when Kate goes out for some
fresh air, Alex follows her.
They have a small talk, and it's a nice little moment between the two of them.
After that they share a dance and a few little
kisses under the moonlight until Morgan and
Mona catch them making out.
As Kate is drinking, it all comes together:
Alex was the guy that Kate had kissed at a
party years ago.
Alex is the guy who Morgan is angry at and she's shocked that she hadn't put it together until now
Sometime after the party, Alex gets a phone call
It’s about his dad, Simon.
He goes to a hospital in Chicago to see his
dad where he learns what happened.
His dad had a heart attack, but he’s alive
and Alex stays the night with his dad.
In the future, Kate is going through the archives
where she finds out that that Alex’s dad
has died.
As Alex goes back to the lake house, he gets
a call, and now he finds out that his dad
has died and he spends his time at the lake
house grieving but he’s ready to move on.
Sometime later, Alex decides to something
a little crazy: He wants to meet Kate, and
together they set up a dinner date.
2 years in the future for Alex, and tomorrow
for Kate.
They’re preparing, it’s ready, she comes
all dressed up, and orders a glass of wine
and she waits.
But no one shows up.
There’s no sign of Alex anywhere and Kate
is absolutely devastated.
In her final letter to Alex,
Kate tells him to stop writing to her and to leave
her alone because she’s realized that this
relationship just won’t work out.
and Alex argues to try again but she’s not having
it.
Life isn’t a story where you always get
the chance to meet someone, Alex.
Life is random and its fragile
But he continues to write to her waiting for
the chance that maybe, maybe she’s changed
her mind and she hasn’t.
In the future, Kate starts dating Morgan again,
she’s fully dedicated to moving on and for
her life’s better.
Soon, Alex himself moves on: after Jack runs
away, Alex puts the letters from Kate in a
cardboard box that he puts in the attic.
This is same box that Kate mentioned at the
beginning of the film; in her letter.
That wasn’t there when he got there, but
was there because he left it there.
He leaves the lake house, driving over to
Morgan’s office and gives Morgan the keys
to the Lake House.
After Alex drives off, Jack the dog shows
up and is taken in by Morgan.
Alex moves on from Kate and moves in with
his brother, in a Chicago apartment where
Alex begins redesigning the lake house.
2 years later, in 2008, Morgan and Kate live
together
That Valentine’s Day, in 2008 Kate and Morgan go to meet an architect
Henry Wyler, Alex’s brother
At same time in 2006, the Wyler brothers leave
their apartment and while walking, Henry reveals
his plan for Valentine's Day and then Alex
remembers one of Kate’s letters.
She mentioned that there was something important
that happened on Valentine’s Day in Chicago
and he rushes back to the Lake house
At the architect’s office, Kate spots a
concept piece of the lakehouse and asks Henry
who drew it.
He replies that his brother did.
Did you know him?
She tells him she did and asks if there's
any way she can get in touch with him.
And we find out that he died 2 years ago,
on Valentine’s Day, in an accident at Daley
Plaza.
Kate remembers what happened 2 years ago on
Valentines Day: the bus crash!
So, Kate rushes to the lake house hoping to
warn him not to leave the lake house today
because Kate figures out that it was Alex
who died that day in 2006.
Kate frantically writes one final letter:
confessing her love for Alex and begging him
to stay away; don’t go.
Wait 2 years and meet her at the lakehouse, please.
So just to be clear: Alex is dead.
He’s been dead since 2006.
That’s why he didn’t call her and why
he wasn’t at the dinner date: he was dead
the whole time but we’re gonna
see something that changes our understanding
of how time works in this movie.
So stick around.
Alex goes to the attic, opening the box full
of letters that she sent.
He’s looking for the last letter that she
ever sent to him.
Because in that letter Kate mentions that
she was at Daley Plaza in 2006 on Valentine's Day
He knows where Kate is now and this might
be his chance meet her.
Alex goes to the plaza and when he sees Kate,
he starts to cross the road as the bus starts
moving.
As for Kate?
She’s crying and hoping that he got the
letter in time.
Hoping that he’s still alive.
And then we see a familiar truck and a man
exits: it’s Alex!
He rushes out to to hold her in his arms and
kiss her.
They are finally reunited, and the movies
ends with them arm-in-arm, walking into the
lake house.
You’re probably wondering what
just happened, right?
If Alex was the man who died on Valentine’s
Day, how come he's still alive in the end?
The only thing that makes sense to me is that
Alex and Kate can change history
and when they do so, they 'jump' timelines.
This is most obvious at the end
where Kate writes the letter that saves Alex's life
the letter causes both of them to jump to a timeline
where Alex never died and
in this new timeline: Alex lives, waits 2
years, and then goes to the lake house.
For him: he never died.
For Kate?
She remembers that he did which is why she’s waiting at the lake house
Her letter changed the timelines for both of them
and she’s waiting for the changes to take effect.
So I've given you 3 theories, right?
And believe conclusively that this movie uses multiple timelines to explain
how time travel works. But that's just what I think,
I really want to know what you guys think so leave your ideas and theories in the comments down below
With that being said, thank you so much for
watching.
Ladies and gentlemen.
If you enjoyed the video leave a like down
below and subscribe to get updated,
on our latest uploads. Until next time